So let's now continue on.
We've got three methods we need to create,
updateContact, removeContact, and
queryContact so
we can finish off our challenge.
So the first one, update.
You're doing a private static void.
UpdateContact.
So first thing's first, we need to
get the name you wanna search for,
enter existing contact name like so.
And we're gonna put
String_name = scanner.nextLine.
Like so,
we're gonna retrieve the one we want.
Now, the next part, what we could do,
is we wanna use something
like the mobile phone.
.query and in this case you can
see that we've got an option for
that except to contact, but
in this case what we wanna also do,
we wanna implement another
version of query contact.
We wanna pass just the name and
to return the record, the entire record,
the contact record for that name.
And the reason for
tha will become apparent.
So what I wanna do is go back to
mobile phone and looking at our query,
we're gonna do something similar,
we wanna do a public contact,
query contact, string name.
Like so.
So we wanna return, we wanna have a look
for any record that matches the name and
actually then return
the contact record for
that because we're gonna
need that in the next line.
We can actually use the internal method
we created to the find contacts to do so.
So we can do something like int position
= findContact, and pass the name to that.
Then we can put if(position >= 0),
that means we've found an entry.
And what we wanna do at
that point is return.
This.myContacts.get that position.
So we want to return the contact,
or object I should say,
that's in that position in the array list.
Failing that, if we weren't able to
find it we're going to return null.
So that's our method, so again we're
just getting the position number
based on the name to
see whether it exists.
If it does exist in the array list
which is that contact record,
otherwise we're going to return null.
So going back to our main class again.
So, what we can now do is, use the query.
We can put .query and
we can use the string one like name,
and we can do Contact
existingContactRecord,
like so.
And then what we can do is, we can put
ifexisting contact records == null,
we can say contact not found.
And then we can return,
just return cuz there's no return type.
So basically if we don't find
the entry we can't update it.
So we gotta return null.
But the good thing about is
now that we've done that is
we can now easily proceed because what
we can do now is just we can actually
send that contact record ultimately
when we're going to update the record.
But the first thing we need to do because
we're replacing the existing contact
name with a new one,
we need to actually accept that as input.
So we're going to actually print,
enter new contact name, like so.
And string, new name =
scanner.next line.
Accept the new contact that we're going to
assign and this could be in the case when
someone perhaps got married and
their name changed.
And likewise mobile phone number
may be the same but may not be,
enter new contact phone number,
and string number equals like so.
So we've got the new number and the new
name so we're going to create a new record
for that so
Contact newContact equals we want to
use the Contact static method and
pass the new name and the new number.
Like so.
So we've now got the two entries.
We've got the existing record
as a contact object and
also the new contact as an object so,
we can just call it update contact
doing mobilephone.updatecontact and
we pass the old one first,
old existing contact record and
new contact.
And then what we really could is put if,
surround that in an if,
so because that's returning a true or
false we can put.
Successfully updated record.
Otherwise if an else
error updating record.
Now we shouldn't actually get an error
with the update because we've
already done a test beforehand
to see whether it existed,
but in a multi-user type world for example
the record could have been deleted since
the time that we retrieved, determined
whether it was on file or not so
it would be good to actually
still test for that anyway.
In this case,
we've now implemented the update contact.
So thinking about it, the remove contact
is actually gonna be very similar.
We wanna do the same thing, we wanna
just check to see whether it exists.
If it does exist then try to delete it.
So I'm gonna copy some of this.
I'm gonna copy this part and paste that.
Like so.
But we're gonna call it remove contact.
And we're going to add another bracket
there, so at this point the code
prior to that, we're actually testing to
see whether it exists or not so we've got
to here, we know that it does exist, so
we've got the existing record so we all we
really need to do is just call the method
so we can put mobile phone dot remove and
it's asking for the parameter which is
of course the existing contact record.
And again we can wrap that in an if.
So if, successfully deleted,
or else, error deleting record
contact to be more precise.
So that's our removeContact.
And the last thing we wanna do
now is just do a query, and
the queryContact code again
is pretty is pretty similar.
So we could do something similar,
I'm just gonna copy that code.
Gonna be queryContact.
QueryContact into existing name,
and we'll say contact not found.
We wouldn't really need to do it
because we've already queried it once.
We could actually just print out
a message where's the effect of name,
that's the existing
contact record .getName,
phone number is
existingRecord.getPhoneNumber and
that was sort of confirmed that
we're able to actually retrieve
the number because obviously we
already asked for the name and
then from the name we're able to determine
obviously the find number because
the information that was returned to
us also returned tha tin a string.
So I think that's all our functions now.
So I think we're ready now to
actually try running this code and
seeing whether shock, horror,
it actually works so let's try that now.
Okay, so there's our function.
So let's make a start of it.
So firstly, 1, print contacts.
Shouldn't be any, which is correct.
So let's add a contact.
Contact, we'll say it's Tim.
Phone number 12345,
pretty original phone number there.
New contact added, name equals Tim,
phone equals 12345, and
if we print the contacts, we've now
got a contact list with me on there.
Just one record.
Let's add another one.
Bob, 23890, and
just print that list out again.
That seems to be working okay,
add one more shall we?
Okay and list that again.
It's definitely working and option six so
that we can see our list of options again.
All right, so
let's go ahead and do a query,
and we'll go option five,
we'll try the queries out.
So let's try one that
we know is on file too.
Name Tim for our number equals 12345,
so that's good that it found the number.
And, we'll just do one more,
so number five for Bob.
23890, which is correct for Bob,
you can see that on the screen there.
Let's do one that's not on file.
Roy contact not found, which is correct.
That's good.
So let's do an update.
So do an update, firstly we'll
enter something that doesn't exist.
Derrick.
Contact not found, which is good.
And we'll try option three again.
This time we'll try Tim.
This time it's actually come up and
said, what's the new name?
So it's found it, so we'll put Tom.
And we'll put 8900000.
Tim was replaced with Tom,
successfully updated.
And the list of options again, and
we'll just print the contacts out.
You can see element one has
been updated to Tom, 8900000.
And remove is the only other thing
we need to check, so let's do that.
Let's try and remove, say, Bob.
Bob was deleted but
lets confirm that was the case.
Tom and Mark remain, so
yes it has been deleted.
So I think that's all the functions and
it seems to be working nicely.
So that's my solution.
I hope you've got to learn all this and
that your solution was perhaps similar.
I know that I changed a couple of things
I didn't talk about specifically.
But, now if you've done
something very similar and
you've got the results that were similar
to this, you've actually done very well.
No matter what, hopefully you've got
a lot out of this, and important
is just to start thinking about when
you're implementing some of this code.
So I'll just close this down,
it's just to decide where that code was.
I think it was important when we talked
about getting back to the mobile phone and
we talked about the print, print
contacts whether that code effectively
could have been in the mobile phone, or
whether it should have been there or
in here, I think we made the right
decision to actually put that code
in the mobile phone because it
was in the mobile phone class.
Because it was related
to the mobile phone.
So that's it.
We're formally done with array list.
I know there were a lot
of videos that we did for
that but it was very important to cover
a lot of that because we're gonna be
going into different types of lists and
we're gonna assume at
this point as we move forward that
you understand the basics of lists.
We'll just be talking
about the specifics and
the different types of
lists that are in Java.
So I'll see you in that next video.